---
layout: default
title: Ehcache Confirguration
---


<h1>Configuration</h1>
<h2>Expiration settings</h2>
<ul>
  <li>timeToLivesSeconds - The maximum number of seconds an element can exist in the cache regardless of access</li>
  <li>timeToIdleSeconds - The maximum number of seconds an element can exist in the cache without being accessed</li>
  <li>eternal - when set to "true", the expiration configuration of timetoLive and timeToIdle can take no place</>
</ul>
<h2>Local sizing attributes</h2>
<ul>
  <li>maxEntriesLocalHeap</li>
  <li>maxBytesLocalHeap</li>
  <li>maxEntriesLocalDisk</li>
  <li>maxBytesLocalDisk</li>
</ul>

<h2>Dynamic cache</h2>
<p>In ehcache.xml you can disable dynamic configuration by setting the <ehcache> element's dynamicConfig attribute to "false Memory Store</p>
<ul>
  <li>overflowToOffHeap - When an element is added to a cache and it goes beyond its maximum memory size, an existing element is either deletedm if overflow is not enabled, or evaluated for spooling to another tier, if overflow is enabled. memoryStoreEvbictionPolicy - the eviction of an item. legal values are LRU, LFU, FIFO
    <ul>
      <li>Least Recently Used(LRU) - LRU is the default setting. The last-used timestamp is updated when an element is put into the cache or an element is retrieved from the cache with a get call.</li>
      <li>Least Frequently Used(LFU) - For each get call on the element the number of hits is updated. The lessw frequently used element is evicted</li>
      <li>First In First OUt(FIFO) - Elements are evicted in the same order as they come in</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>



<h2>Disk Store</h2>
<p>Only the serializable data can be placed in the disk store. Use <diskStore> element to config the path of disk store</p>
<ul>
  <li>LocalTempSwap - The localTempSwap persistence strategy allows the memory store to overflow to disk when it becomes full. This option makes the disk a temporary store because overflow data dose not survive restarts or failures. when the node is restarted, any existing data on disk is cleared because it not designed to be reloaded. If the disk store path is not specified, a default path is used, the disk store creates a data file for eache cache on startup called "<cache_name>.data"</li>
  <li>LocalRestartable - This option implements a restartable store for all in-memory data. After any restart, the data set is automatically reloaded from disk to the in-memory stores With the localTempSwap strategy, you can use maxEntriesLocalDisk or maxBytesLocalDisk at either the Cache or CacheManager level to control the size of the disk tier.</li>
</ul>

<h2>Disk Store Expiry and Eviction</h2>
<p>Expired elements are eventually evicted to free up disk space. The element is also removed from the in-memory index of elements. One thread per cache is used to remove expired elements. The optional attribute diskExpiryThreadIntervalSeconds sets the interval between runs of the expiry thread. Setting diskExpiryThreadIntervalSeconds to a low value can cause excessive disk-store locking and high CPU utilization. The default value is 120 seconds. If a cache's disk store has a limited size, Elements will be evicted from the disk store
when it exceeds this limit. The LFU algorithm is used for these evictions. It is not configurable or changeable.</p>
